=Methods=


==Generalized Roe & Metz Model==

iRoeMetz makes use of a generalized version of the Roe & Metz model [1]. This generalized model accounts for 18 variances as opposed to the six variances in the original model. The original six variances were of readers, cases, the interaction between readers and cases, and the interaction of modality with the three aforementioned variances. The generalized model takes these existing six and then accounts for the interaction of them against truth and differing modalities [2].

<wiki:gadget url="http://mathml-gadget.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/mathml-gadget.xml" border="0" up_content="a x^2+b x+c=0"/>


==Simulation==

Experiments are simulated by taking normally distributed random variables of the corresponding variance to the input and using them in the equations detailed in Figure 1.1.1. The t-matrices produced by these equations can be used to estimate the components of variance and their respective decompositions (see iMRMC User Guide section 2.1, 2.2 for explanation), and to create simulated reader scores. 

The random variables are created by using a pseudo-random number generator known as the Mersenne Twister. This method of random number generation is particularly suited to Monte Carlo trials, and is faster and more efficient than Java’s standard library pseudo-random number generator. 

iRoeMetz has the ability to perform numerous simulations at once based on the same input variances. The effect is that the average estimated components of variance over a large number of simulations approaches the calculated components of variance. iRoeMetz scales to multi-core CPUs, providing a speed benefit when performing numerous simulations. 


==Calculation==

Given the variances, means and experiment size, the components of variance can calculated via numerical integration. This calculation can be found in the source file `CofVGenRoeMetz.java` (package `roemetz.core`) inside the method: 

{{{
public static void genRoeMetz(double[] u, double[] var_t, int[] n);
}}}