The previous versions are provided here from most recent to the oldest.

When accessing links, make sure that you refresh your browser.

== Simulation Configurations ==
iRoeMetz allows for using simulation configuration files. Here are the simulation configurations that replicate the original Roe and Metz simulations (Roe, Acad Radiol, 1997, v4 p298).


*[http://imrmc.googlecode.com/svn/standalone_application/FilesTest-iRoeMetz/ Click to download simulation configuration files (*.irm)]*

<br>
<br>
=Version v1p2=
posted 2014-04-08

Simulation configuration files were created to replicate the the original Roe and Metz simulations (Roe, Acad Radiol, 1997, v4 p298) and are now available. <br>
When 10,000 simulations were run, the application crashed. The corresponding memory problem was fixed.

*[http://imrmc.googlecode.com/svn/standalone_application/iRoeMetz-v1p2.jar Click to download application (iRoeMetz-v1p2.jar)]*

*[http://imrmc.googlecode.com/svn/standalone_application/iRoeMetzUserManual-v1p0.pdf Click to download user manual (iRoeMetzUserManual-v1p0.pdf)]* <br>

<br>

=Version v1p1=
posted 2014-03-28

The precision of the numerical integration method to calculate the moments of the Roe and Metz simulation model was increased. Some formatting of the GUI was changed to make the expected contents of the input boxes more clear.

*[http://imrmc.googlecode.com/svn/standalone_application/iRoeMetz-v1p1.jar Click to download application (iRoeMetz-v1p1.jar)]*

*[http://imrmc.googlecode.com/svn/standalone_application/iRoeMetzUserManual-v1p0.pdf Click to download user manual (iRoeMetzUserManual-v1p0.pdf)]* <br>

<br>

=Version 1p0 =
posted 2013-08-02

*[http://imrmc.googlecode.com/svn/standalone_application/iRoeMetz-v1p0.jar Click to download application (iRoeMetz-v1p0.jar)]*

*[http://imrmc.googlecode.com/svn/standalone_application/iRoeMetzUserManual-v1p0.pdf Click to download user manual (iRoeMetz-v1p0.pdf)]* <br>