The basic structure of a validation study has the following steps

1. Specify simulation configurations: Generate input files that explore different simulation configurations (model parameters and experiment sizes) in order to run them in parallel.

2. Simulate the data sets. We will create a list of jobs in order to do this in parallel. Each simulation configuration will be run as a single job or a batch of jobs, depending on how many Monte Carlo (MC) trials are needed and how long it takes to run a single MC trial. For example, in order to run 100,000 MC trials of a single simulation configuration, we may create 100 jobs that run 1,000 MC trials. This will distribute the jobs across many nodes, allowing for a high level of parallelization (speed up). Special care must be paid to the random number generator (RNG) to make sure that each of the jobs is independent. We use the L'Ecuyer RNG package for this.

3. Analyze the data sets. This step may be separate for the simulation step or it may not be separate from the simulation step. For example, the MC data sets may be generated by someone else and we need to analyze the data sets. For the alternate example, the simulation may generate the MC data set and analyze it with the same program.

4. Aggregate the data: When running data in parallel, the results will be distributed across many output files. In this step, we combine all the results into a single or small number of output files.

5. Summarize the data: In this step, we process the raw simulation results into summary statistics for tables and figures that will be used in reports and manuscripts.

#### Examples

Move the following to READMEexample1.md and add more detail so that someone can completely replicate the validation study. Please include actual files as long as they are not too big. Please make it an example that shows many jobs per simulation configuration.

<h5>Run iRoeMetz validation in parallel in linux </h5>

1. Create a new folder “allinput” for all configure input files (e.g. /raidb/qigong/imrmc/allinput) 

2. Save iReoMetz.jar file in any directory 

3. Create .txt file (e.g. sample.txt) in the same directory as iReoMetz.jar. In this file each line is for one configure input file. The format should be:

export DISPLAY=":0.0"; java -jar iRoeMetz-v2p1.jar + “input file directory and name” 

(e.g export DISPLAY=":0.0"; java -jar iRoeMetz-v2p1.jar /raidb/qigong/imrmc/allinput/001.irm)

4. Open terminal and login but don’t get into any node.

5. Visit iReoMetz.jar directory in terminal and input command “swarm sample.txt”

6. Software will create a new folder “output” in input files directory and save 3 output files for each input file : 
  1.each trials’ result (001Trail.csv); 
  2.MC simulation result (001SimulationOutput.omrmc); 
  3.Numerical result (001NumericalOutput.omrmc)

Note: the terminal will show how many input file has finished.
